# Tauri Devs Bi-Weekly Meeting Notes

## Mar 23, 2023

### Agenda

- Lucas: Tauri v2.0.0-alpha.4
    - https://tauri.app/blog/2023/03/20/tauri-2-0-0-alpha-4/
    - "HTTP Client Breaking Change"
    - "Native Mobile Functionality for Tauri Plugins"
    - RFC coming soon
- Yuwei: [webkit2gtk v2.40](https://webkitgtk.org/2023/03/17/webkitgtk2.40.0-released.html) released woop woop!
    - IPC improvement research started again: https://github.com/tauri-apps/wry/issues/454
- Daniel: Preparing for the 2.0 Audit
    - [1.0 was externally audited by Radically Open Security](https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/tree/dev/audits)
    - Minor releases were/are internally audited (1.2 was, 1.3, etc.)
    - Expecting the same internal audit to happen for 2.0
    - Internally audit 2.0 during alpha, once audited to satisfaction then release as beta
    - Then audited externally and issues resolved to satisfaction we move from beta to RCs
- Lorenzo: Semver Syncing
    - https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/issues/6506
    - How would releasing minor versions for plugins look like? Would that also bump majors?
    - Differences between cargo semver and node semver?
    - What's our definition of a major/minor/patch?
    - Some sort of tooling to help "check" that versions across the ecosystem are compatible (plugins, core, Rust side, Node side, etc.)?
    - Can `tauri info` detect plugin version incompatibility and notify you there?
- Lucas(?) & Fabian(?): Minor 1.x versions before 2.0
    - tao / wry have branches for the version tauri 1.x needs
    - Want to get new features out to the community, less time without updates
    - Up until now we've said "freeze at 1.3 to focus on 2.0", but is that the right decision?
    - Propose have the "core" people working on `next` to continue, but have a parallel focus to backport some features to 1.x
    - Could also make the internal audit for 2.0 easier as some features will be audited
    - Possibly make 1.x releases that bring in non-breaking refactoring changes to keep the codebase closer to 2.0
- Lorenzo: `tauri add` CLI command feature request
    - https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/issues/6505
    - `tauri plugin add|update|remove` proposed by Daniel?
    - Updating the Rust code could be a challenge
- Lorenzo & Simon: "Officially Maintained" Framework Support
    - Discord Thread: https://discord.com/channels/616186924390023171/1088462494143619094
    - With the docs & CTA we need to limit ourselves to a set of "officially maintained" frameworks for sanity's sake
    - We talked about this being Svelte, React, Solid, Vue, and Angular for Node (based off the latest [State of JS's frontend framework](https://2022.stateofjs.com/en-US/libraries/front-end-frameworks/) usage, Solid slipping in because it's at the top of retention)
    - Where do things like Next.js, Nuxt, SvelteKit, etc. fit in here?
    - Astro has a concept of "Official" vs. "Community" maintained recipes https://docs.astro.build/en/recipes/. We could implement this in the docs and CTA for "official" vs "community" maintained configurations
    - Possible confusion between what Tauri supports vs. what templates we maintain
    - Look at the Rust Tier system for inspo. They all have some official support (someone "sponsors" it)
        - Tier 1 could have integration tests
        - Tier 2 doesn't have integration tests
    - Mention / push `tauri init` more, people don't always know it exists.
    - With CTA 2 it was a minimal set of templates
        - Over time we got more submitted from the community but we had to take on the maintenance ourselves (AKA Amr)
        - the new github code search could also be a viable way for us to discover community templates in the wild and try and contribute our guidelines ("mention how to clone/create with it at the top of the readme")

### Chat questions

Q: will 1.3 be released before or alongside 2.0?
A: Before.

### Action Items

- Next WG call will be focused specifically on release schedules
