# Tauri Devs Bi-Weekly Meeting Notes

## Feb 9, 2023

### Attendees

### Agenda

- [x] Release schedule planning.
    - [x] Scope of Tauri v2.0
    - [x] Release Strategy
    - [x] Review/Audit Strategy
- [x] How to open office hours to community
    - [x] Would we like to have an internal WG call for discussion topics (along side the async convos we have)
    - [x] Could have a Community Call that's a more structure overview of what we've been up to for the first half and then have the second half more an office-hours environment

### Notes

#### Scope of Tauri v2.0

- MSRV bump to 1.64 so far (from windows-rs and gtk)
- webkit2gtk-4.1 (switch to libsoup3)
- Initial mobile support. Basically just a screen to paint some html.
- (TBD?) Redesign API to meet mobile need:[ https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/issues/6107]( https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/issues/6107)

Mobile has lots of APIs which are not that useful on Desktop and even more the other way around.
Examples that are not working on mobile are: Windows, Dialogs, Updater, ...

For 2.0 we consider mobile support but API needs rework. 
How can we ship 2.0 - what is our definition of done?
Communication to the community to reduce some mobile expectations timing wise.

Can we start with a matrix of modules and...
1. If they are fundamentally possible on mobile
2. If they're in scope for 2.0
3. If they're in scope for post-2.0
4. Things that are mobile-specific and not on Desktop

@lorenzo-lewis List of feature requests for the community to vote/focus on

Definition of Done:
- Shipping to the official App Stores should be implemented for mobile with a defined process.

#### Release Strategy

Release Strategy similar to Rust?
    - Work happens on main/dev branch (bleeding edge/unstable)
    - alpha every x weeks (no auditing, latest features, requires bugfixes and small feature changes, no stability guarantee, some PRs can be cherry picked/promoted for security review labels)
    - promoted to beta after x weeks (reviews, partial audits, feature addition is blocked, bugfix and maturing state, partial stability guarantee)
    - before promotion short alignment which PRs are blocked and need set back to next cycle
    - promoted to stable after x weeks (reviewed, audited, stability released)
    
Automated scheduled release process setup _absolutely necessary_ to make it seamless and align expectations.
Review and release flow references?

#### Review/Audit Strategy

Auditing lifecycle for stable releases could be decoupled from the releases.
Stable releases can be retroactively marked as audited by 3rd party.
We could also use our internal auditing and label these as security audited internally.

When do we which kind of auditing? 
    - PR: Individual Review
    - Feature (spans over x PRs): Integrated Review
    - Release: All PRs in combination
How do we elect PRs or features for "security needed" (shiny github label and maybe review process)?
How do we increase the review lifecycle from "lgtm" to "I spent some hours playing with it and found this edge case"?
How to balance the review load and how to find good candidates for reviews?
How to prioritize reviews?

#### How to open office hours to community

- Problem with the need of internal calls
- Voice of engineers is scarce. It should make it to public when it can address some issues.
- Make the meeting notes and agenda before the call and let wg can address before it.


### Action Items

- [ ] Map out the API Endpoints for building a roadmap for 2.0 features
